[ Music ]
>> Lilou: [Background Music]
Hello, my Juicy co-creators.
Lilou here.
I'm on the road interviewing
amazing co-creators all
around the world and today
I'm sitting here in London,
in England with your
Arielle, hello.
>> Arielle Essex: Hello,
lovely to see you and meet you.
>> Lilou: And I love it when
London and England is sunny.
It's even more wonderful.
It's such a wonderful experience
and very different than usual.
>> Arielle Essex: Well yes.
I live here for 35 years now
and I can tell you the summers
aren't usually as nice as this.
>> Lilou: Where you
from originally?
>> Arielle Essex: New York.
>> Lilou: Fantastic.
So we have a New York, an
American here in London
and I love it because-- and
there's these cultures--
blend of cultures, that makes
it really, really interesting.
So you have this amazing story
and I'm very happy to do this,
this interview with you
and we'll going to deal
about also crisis advice
because you face a huge crisis
in your life.
We're going to speak
of health of course.
And you are the author
of a book published
by Hay House called
Practical Miracles.
So we're here to
speak about miracles.
We love speaking about miracles.
I love it.
My favorite topic,
I feel there's miracles
happening everyday
and we're not just aware of it.
>> Arielle Essex: Every moment,
every moment, yes, why not?
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> Arielle Essex: We
just don't recognize them
and it's learning how to
recognize them, that is the art,
the real art of everything,
appealing, of success,
of relationships if we
can recognize the miracle
in every moment or the potential
for a miracle in every moment.
>> Lilou: How do you
define miracle then?
>> Arielle Essex: That's
a very good question.
In fact a good place to start
because I think particularly
in the health field,
people think of a miracle
as an instant healing like
somebody goes abracadabra
and suddenly boom,
you're healed.
And I know that from my
own experience, my clients
and even myself, when I go in to
have a treatment of some kind,
if I don't come out
feeling instantly better,
I'm disappointed.
I'm hoping for that
instant miracle.
>> Lilou: You start comparing
with other experiences?
>> AE: Absolutely.
And will say this person,
this treatment was
good, that one wasn't.
When in fact what I discovered
is that almost every type
of treatment is useful and
has helped somebody somewhere.
So I have a much broader
and more flexible view
of different kinds
of treatments.
But going back--
>> Lilou: You're speaking
of holistic treatment
and not-- energetic as well.
Not just the traditional way.
>> AE: Everything, everything.
And you know, I'm a
naturopath by background
so I prefer looking at
the body more naturally.
But it's the natural
miracles that I want to sort
of encourage to happen.
Now my definition
of a miracle comes
from the metaphysical
book, A Course in Miracles,
and in that book, it defines a
miracle as a change in thought.
And I say before a
miracle can happen,
you have to have a change
in your perspective.
You have to be able to think
about the situation
in a different way.
And I said what does that mean?
How can that be?
Now I've always been in
the opinion that mind,
body medicine is
really where it's at.
If we can change our thoughts
and reduce our stress then
the body has a chance to heal.
And I don't know whether
you had the good fortune
to meet Dr. Bruce Lipton yet
but he's one of my heroes
and you know, he says up to 95
percent of illness is caused
by stress and that's
mental emotional stress.
That's can only be caused by
our thinking, bad thinking.
So, if we could change
our bad thinking,
our mistake in thinking
into miracles mindedness,
then we have greater
potential to heal.
That's where I'm coming from.
>> Lilou: Is that how you were
able to cure your brain tumor?
Tell us about this
diagnosis that you received
and what was kind of the
circumstances of it too?
>> AE: Sure.
It sounds like an old story
and it's unusual story.
It's an old story because
it happened 20 years ago.
>> Lilou: Yeah, the
other life huh?
>> AE: Yeah.
And I've been healed
for over 10 years now.
So actually 13 years I've
been completely healed.
But what happened was what
happens to many people.
I got diagnosed with
what sounded
like a very serious
illness out of the blue,
completely out of the blue.
Now to put into perspective,
I was working
as an osteopath and naturopath.
I had a perfect diet.
I was exercising.
I was meditating.
I was on a spiritual
path for 20 years.
I was doing everything
in "right."
And so to suddenly be diagnosed
with a brain tumor
was a shocked.
And I thought well, "Why me?
How come, you know, all
of these other people
who were doing, you know?"
>> Lilou: It's so unfair.
>> AE: So unfair, you know?
And overnight I-- I had to
recognize that all of the things
that I was thinking now had
to be put into practice.
So of course I took the mind,
body approach at first and said,
"Right, I'm going to
heal this naturally.
I'm going to do everything I
can to heal this naturally.
I'm not going to have
the orthodox treatment."
And it was so stressful.
I still went to the doctor.
I still have the
scans, the blood test,
the visits to the surgeons and I
had-- I took all of their advice
and of course they were
promoting, you know,
I should take certain drugs
and I looked into surgery
at one point and there's
just like, oh my goodness.
No, I don't want to do
want to do any of this.
That lasted for about
six months.
And after about six
months, I was so fed
up with what I began
to call my nightmare.
It was like this black cloud
used to descent on my head.
And every morning
I would say, "Oh,
I got to carry this
brain tumor around."
What was curios was, before I
was diagnosed I had headaches
but I didn't have any other
symptoms that I was aware of.
My life was normal.
Now, I had this trauma
to deal with.
So, at six months
I thought, well,
maybe I should just get
rid of it 'cause, you know,
I want one of those
instant miracles.
I go to the surgeon, have the
operation and get rid of it.
And that meant I had to, you
know, really face my fear
of surgery and all the things
that people have to face
when they're build for
chemotherapy or radiotherapy
or surgery or any of those
really invasive techniques,
I thought, "Okay, so I had to
use all of my skills to sort
of calm myself down, to go
to visit the neurosurgeon."
And anyway, I finally
went into his office
and we put he put all my scans
on the wall and he looked
at them and he said, "Your
tumor is located right behind
this bone.
I had to drill through the
bone to get at the tumor.
So this is far too dangerous.
Your tumor, you know, is
large but it's not dangerous."
So I refuse.
I'm not going to operate unless
it doubles in size and comes
over that bone and I can
get at it more easily.
So you know I knew at that
point, I could have gone
to a different surgeon
who would have operated.
I could have taken the drug
but instead I walked out of
that office with a great
big smile on my face.
I was so relieved.
I wasn't going to
have to have surgery.
I was-- he encouraged
me to take the drug
but I'd already decided not to
take the drug they offered me
because it had really
lousy side effects.
And my symptoms weren't
that bad.
And when I researched what the
drug actually did for the tumor,
it didn't heal it,
it didn't cure it.
It sort of shrank it in
a short of dehydrated way
but the cells kept multiplying.
Now at that point in time I
really wanted to have a baby.
>> Lilou: And what were the
consequences of that tumor too?
I mean it is-- was
it going to grow,
could it be actually deadly?
What was the impact?
Was it just there
for now and kind
of they didn't really
know how it would evolve?
>> AE: That's right
they didn't know.
It was-- what they
called borderline.
It was right in the pituitary.
It was called a prolactinoma
and it was 1 centimeter
which is their point
where beyond 1 centimeter
is definitely malignant.
Under 1 centimeter,
it's benign usually.
Mine was right at 1
centimeter so they didn't know
which way it was going except
that the blood test
measuring the amount
of prolactin being
produced were extremely high
and that meant it was
very, very active.
And I think it was 2200
or 22,000 I can't remember
the exact amount of--
excuse, of prolactin
being produced.
But anyway, I thought
to myself when I left
that surgeon's office, I'm
not going to take the drug
because it has side effects.
The tumor is causing infertility
that's one of the side effects.
>> Lilou: And you were 39 and
you wanted to have a baby yeah?
>> AE: Yeah, I was 39, the
magic age of the clock-ticking
and I have this wonderful
boyfriend
and he really wanted a boy-- he
really wanted a baby, so did I.
And, you know, we even got
pregnant for two weeks once,
that was a long time ago
and I loss it unfortunately,
probably because of
the high prolactin.
Because when you have a
high level of prolactin
in your blood stream, it's
like your body is being told
you're already pregnant.
Prolactin is the hormone
that makes milk, get produced
in the breast and
for babies obviously,
and I had such a high level
that my body thought it
was already pregnant.
You know what's interesting.
I wanted to be pregnant so
much and had been thinking
about babies for so long.
>> Lilou: But you already
turned on the mode, pregnant.
>> AE: Exactly.
My body said, "Oh, you
want to be pregnant?
Be pregnant then."
[ Laughter ]
>> Lilou: And this is
linked to the tumor then?
>> AE: Possibly, who knows?
The thoughts that actually
I needed to change were
around the whole issue
of being a mother
and being in relationship.
It was very much about
those sorts of issues.
>> Tell us about your
previous relationship?
It is-- was really something
there for you as struggle
that led to that or how, what
was the relationship world?
>> AE: Well my relationship
world has always been my
biggest challenge.
And I think that's not
uncommon these days, you know,
I have many friends who
are equally challenged
by having a really
good relationship.
And up to that time,
well, I've been married
for 10 years, I gotten divorce.
I thought it would take
me a maximum of two years
to find myself, a husband
who really wanted children.
My ex-husband didn't
want children.
So I thought I find a man who
really wants to be a father.
I'll move to the house--
through a house in the country
and we'll have, you know, kids
and a dog and a cat and a horse,
you know, and everything
will be beautiful
and I have this perfect life.
Well that was my plan
anyway and I thought
that was my best
plan for happiness.
And what happened was I had
relationship after relationship
which floundered and failed
and left me feeling quite
battered and bruised.
And then I met this
lovely man when I was 39
and he wanted children
and everything looked
like it was promising.
And he was-- he was an
absolute angel to me.
He was so supportive.
And it was like, "Brain tumor?
Huh! It doesn't matter."
You know and his
attitude of "Huh!
It doesn't matter,"
didn't change anything.
That really helped me.
So that was very supportive and
I was very grateful for that.
Unfortunately, that relationship
didn't last more than a couple
of years so that too sort of
left me in the same problem area
for quite a lot longer.
I obviously had a lot
of learning to do.
And I'm sorry I forgot to tell.
The tumor wasn't
life threatening.
Being in the pituitary,
it could become malignant.
It could spread to other
cells but it's unlikely.
What they did say was that
there was a great danger
that if it grew I could go blind
and I didn't quite like that.
The main symptom I had was just
earth-shattering headaches.
Five days of incredible pain.
And those would happen at the
drop of a hat, usually a minimum
of once a month,
sometimes more often.
And a curious thing happens
which I noticed happens to a lot
of people when they have
a symptom of that pain or,
you know, of they're--
they're undergoing treatment
for something and they're just
suffering is that the body goes
into stress and when the body
goes into stress all the sort
of energy that goes to
the back part of the brain
which is the fight,
flight stress response part
of the brain, the
reactive part of the brain.
And when that happens,
all the juice,
all the energy is taken away
from your frontier lobes
so you can't think.
And what I noticed was I
would have total amnesia.
Imagine I've been
suffering these headaches
for many, many years.
I was trained as a cranial
osteopath, I knew naturopathy,
I knew all of kinds of healing
techniques from kinesiology.
I had been able to
heal my headaches again
and again and again.
Every time a new one started I
would forget what worked before.
Isn't that funny?
It was like I-- I thought
I must leave a trail
of breadcrumbs next time because
I can never remember what to do
to get myself out to this.
And instead I would
always do the wrong thing
because what I've be tempted to
do is, oh, the pain is so great,
I just want to lie down.
I got to go back to bed.
Oh, I just want to
put a cold compress
on my head and lie down.
But that was always
what made it worse.
But I would never remember
that at the beginning.
I'd only think of what I
thought would relieve it.
Actually what made it
best was a real clue.
If I continue to work, if
I continue to see clients,
and especially if I'm just
doing gentle cranial work
and allowing the healing
energy to flow through me,
i felt so much better.
And what was even
more curious was
that my clients never
noticed that I was in pain
and I've never-- never
ever told them of course.
So I used to laugh to myself
after they left thinking
if they only knew, you know?
They came in with sort
of a 10 percent pain
and I was sitting there
with a 90 percent pain
if they only knew, but, you
know, it wasn't important.
What was important for me
was that I helped them heal,
I got the healing too.
Now that was a clue that
something was happening
on a mental, emotional,
and energetic level
that was helping me.
And I knew that my
issue had to do
with this whole relationship
issue because I read bodies
and I read symptoms and I knew
that there was no accident,
there was no coincidence
that I got a prolactinoma.
You know, it didn't come from
outer space and go wiz, wiz,
wiz into my head and it's a--
it's a complete coincidence.
I don't believe in that.
I thought I had to
have created this.
And I thought I've been obsessed
with having a great
relationship, happy family
and a baby, I've been obsessed.
And-- And obsession
is like, you know,
you're thinking thoughts all
the time about something.
And if you think about it,
cancer is an obsessive
growth of cells.
It's mirroring your obsessive
thoughts structure in a way
so in some way, shape, or
perform, I was creating this
with my own obsessive thinking.
So I went for help in
terms of learning about how
to have a good relationship
and I went
on every single relationship
training I could get my
hands on.
>> Lilou: John Gray, I had the
privilege to interview too.
>> AE: John Gray and his
ex-wife, what was her name, Pia.
>> Lilou: Harville
Hendrix you probably know?
>> AE: Yes, Harville Hendrix
and Sondra Ray and I ended
up training extensively with
Chuck and Lency Spezzano
who specialized in
relationships.
So I spent 10 years
training with them
to learn what I was
doing wrong and how
to identify the thoughts
and beliefs.
I was also training in NLP
and that kind of happened
by accident but it was the
best thing that I ever did.
Absolutely, because
NLP helps you
to notice what you're thinking.
It's-- it's really a
training and becoming aware,
aware of your own
thoughts, your own beliefs.
You know it's like being able
to stop your mind like a movie
and run it backwards
and replay it,
and replay it.
And so that you can
actually think,
"Oh what was I thinking just
before that and just before
that and just before that?
How did I get to this depressed
state or this angry state
or this fearful state?
Oh yeah I was running that movie
and then I saw that billboard
and then somebody, you
know, screwed their face
up on the bus and-- and then
I felt that look just like my,
you know, my sister or whatever
and then I would have a thought.
I would have a whole
string of thoughts
which would leave
me down a path.
Now if I hadn't learn how to
stop the movie and rewind it
and run it backwards to find a
thoughts would have been harder
to do that because a lot
of times you're not
aware of your thinking.
We're just aware of, you know,
we're going around our life,
you know, doing what we're doing
maybe we're having a feeling,
and maybe we're thinking
what we're going do next
and that's all of
our conscious mind
and I was smart enough
to know it.
It wasn't my conscious mind
that it created this tumor.
>> Lilou: Bruce Lipton, he
said, you enjoy Bruce Lipton,
he speaks a lot being
conscious, all in conscious.
>> AE: Absolutely.
>> Lilou: And that runs the
show that sort of thing.
>> AE: It does, and nobody gets
up in the morning and says,
today is a good day
to have a cold
or let's create cancer today,
or let's have some
other nasty disease,
or let's create a crisis
in our life, you know,
we don't do that,
not consciously.
So I began to get very, very
curious about what was going
on in my unconscious mind.
And NLP is a training
also based on hypnosis.
So delve into the
unconscious in ways
that make it less
frightening and threatening.
It's-- it's very-- it's like
conscious way of looking
at the unconscious if
that makes any sense,
and they both use
the same brain cells.
The unconscious is always there.
It's always listening.
It's always putting
its little input
in if you know how
to listen to it.
And my personal view is
that our body is like a--
a print out of the
unconscious mind.
I think that, you know,
every thought we think
and every feeling we feel
gets stored in the body.
And as a body worker, you
know, have had this experience
of when you are touching
somebody else's body, massaging
or doing some kind of treatment,
you might stimulate a memory
to come up out of the blue
and they would have been
absolutely perfectly
in their consciousness mind
totally OK in one moment
and you touch their knee or
their shoulder or wherever,
you know, the memory
had been stored
and suddenly the whole
memory comes flooding back.
And I had that happen
with several clients
and I thought that's really
interesting, very interesting.
And after it comes
up to the surface
of course all the feelings
flood in as well and that's
so precious because then
you can deal with it,
then you know what to work on.
What was hard for me
was the tumor was right
in the middle of my head.
I couldn't touch it,
I couldn't get at it.
I could only into it
what it was about.
And they weren't that
many people working
in this field I read all the
books I could get my hands on.
Deepak Chopra had just come
out with his first book
Quantum Healing about then
and that was like my bible.
I was thinking, oh somebody is
really speaking my language.
And luckily he went on
to write many other books
and I've read them
all and that was--
that was helpful because I was
beginning to feel that my way
of thinking about health
and healing was verified.
But it was a long slow process.
And instead of having one
of these miracles cures
in four days or two
weeks or a few months.
You know my process
was very long and slow
and that's why I said my
stories kind of an odd one.
>> Lilou: That's
refreshing to hear that.
>> AE: And that's when
I began to realize
because when I start giving
talks about, you know,
what I've gone through,
people would come up to me
after the talk and say, "Oh
thank you for saying Arielle
because I've been
feeling such a failure
for not having a
spontaneous remission.
For not having healed
in two weeks
or in three months or whatever.
I've been, you know, working
on my problem for years
and I'm still got it."
And I said, "Oh I know that, I
know that feeling because I had
to deal with those
feelings of failure."
When I read all this
fabulous stories
about people having
this miracle healings,
I was going, "Why not me?
Why not me?"
'Cause remember I was the one
who is doing everything right.
I was thinking, I deserve one,
there's nothing holding
me back, except myself.
It was me holding me back.
And, you know, the sort of
funny side of it was I began
to get better and better at
identifying all the beliefs
and each one was important.
And it was like I had to go
through a long slow
university education in learning
about what was inside
my own head.
And for me that was
really valuable
because what it gave
was an insider's view
of what goes on in the mind.
So then now when I'm with the
client, I have no surprises
because I think, "Oh yeah
that makes total sense to me,
I can see how that person would
have gone from that thought
to that though to that thought."
Or they can tell me the final
place and I can into it,
lots of the thoughts that
must have come before that
and asked just the right
question as to, OK,
so did that ever happen or
did you ever have this thought
and save them all that time.
But no one was there
for me to do that,
I had to do it in
a long slow way.
>> Lilou: But were
you seeing progression
because that can be frustrating
too when as you said,
there's a lot of
healing that we received
but there's no manifestation
of potential remission
or whatsoever in
our daily lives.
So how do you deal with that?
>> AE: Well luckily I
was having regular scans
and regular blood test.
And I had a wonderful doctor
who was very open-minded
and flexible, you
know, he encouraged me
to take the drug
every time I saw him.
But when he saw that
after a year or so,
my prolactin level
started to come down.
I remember it was 22 hundred
or something and then it came
down to about a thousand
something, and then he came
down to about 800 and then
it got stock at about 723.
But that was only about,
you know, a few hundred
above the maximum level
that it should be at.
So that gave that gave him
confidence that I was OK
and it gave me verification
that I was on the right track,
and that was terribly important.
It was also very important
for me to have his back
up because I felt I had
a safety net, you know,
here was this specialist, you
know, he was an endocrinologist.
>> Lilou: In London?
>> AE: Yes, an endocrinologist,
a specialist and a skilled.
He was also was an obstetrician
which is interesting
that I was working with a man
who help women have
babies, very funny.
But he was a lovely,
lovely doctor.
He was a doctor who--
he gave from his heart.
His love shown out of his eyes,
it's the best way to say it.
His eyes sparkled and the
moment I met him I thought yes,
I can work with this doctor and
I so fortunate that, you know,
I was able to work
with him for 10 years.
>> Lilou: The connection
is so important,
the person that we choose to
be surrounded by especially
in those healing moments that
makes that that's probably one
of the most important things
to have that connection
and have that feeling.
>> AE: Yeah.
So when he saw that my prolactin
went down, you know, he was--
he is sort of we made a deal
because he kept encouraging
me to have the drug.
And I keep saying, I would
bring in the up-to-date journals
of the drug and its effect
on the tumor that I've gotten
out at the medical
libraries and of course
with doctors they
don't have time to keep
up with their own journals.
But it was my interest so
I went out and got those.
And I had to say, well I just
read this article and I give it
to him and it says here,
blah, blah, blah, blah.
I said I don't think I
want to take this drug.
And he would smile and he would
say, OK, I know people like you.
We'll make a deal.
I'm going to write you a
prescription for the drug
and you're going to
carry it in your wallet.
And if your symptoms get worse,
you'll get it filled
and take the drug.
If you stay stable, you can
continue doing what you're
doing, I said deal.
Of course he would conveniently
forget this deal every time,
I'd come back so I'd
have to gently remind him
but we have this deal.
And gradually he began to
say that I was taking a lot
of responsibility probably more
than most people
would have done.
You know of course I
was frightened at times.
You know when the pain was
really great and sometimes
when I didn't get an immediate,
you know, complete cure,
I was thinking, well,
maybe I'm wasting my time,
but I had no alternative.
Remember I couldn't
take the surgery.
I knew too much about the drug.
I didn't have any other options.
So instead I went out
and I tried everything.
I tried all kinds
of unusual forms
of healing, psychic healing.
I went to all kinds of--
I went to electro crystal
therapy and I did homeopathy.
Homeopathy was very helpful to
me and I continue to do that.
Lots of craniosacral.
I had all this--
>> Lilou: So retrieval
shamanism?
>> AE: Yes, yes.
And I did tons of
re-birthing and I--
>> Lilou: Past life regression?
>> AE: Lots of past
life regressions.
Oh my goodness I
had so much fun.
[ Laughter ]
And I learned so much that my
whole work began to change.
So I went from being
an osteopath
and a cranial osteopath to
gradually incorporating more NLP
and more of the past
life regressions and all
of the other energy work
into my work with clients.
And what was extraordinary
as I began
to get much better results,
maybe because it was a
better blend with me.
Maybe for other reasons,
but I begin to see
that people were not
only getting better,
they were staying better.
Whereas before I would have
people come in with a problem.
And they would get
relieved but they'll be back
in a few weeks times saying,
"Oh it's come back"
or, you know, whatever.
And I would feel like I was just
taking a plaster or a band aid
on their problem and
they were looking to me
to fix their body instead
of taking responsibility
for their body.
And how I was beginning to work
then was helping people to see
that this was their issue.
Let's work on it together,
I would be their guide
and together we could find a
way through but it would be
up to them to really take the
steps necessary whether those
were physical healing
steps, changing their diet,
their nutrition or working on
their mental emotional side
which began to sort of
fascinate me more and more.
I became like a detective trying
to determine what
was the precise cause
because we could get back
to that ultimate cause
where it all went off track.
We went off your
center and started
to have these mistaken ways of
thinking that led to disease.
Then it could be turned
around and you could go back
to allowing the body
to heal itself.
Unlike Bruce Lipton I totally
believe that the body is capable
of healing any disease.
And I think that for every
disease known to man,
there's somebody, somewhere
who has healed it naturally
without any medical
intervention.
And thank goodness
we're beginning
to study people who've had
those spontaneous remissions.
I don't know if you've heard
about IONS out in California,
the Institute on Noetic
Science, I love them.
>> Lilou: A conference happening
in California very soon
too with them yeah.
And you'll be going
on it [inaudible] I've
introduced Marilyn [assumed
spelling] and some
other people there.
>> AE: She's one of
my favorite people
in the world really
inspiration to me.
They did a fantastic
research study into 1,
554 people who'd had spontaneous
remissions from cancer.
And I wished I'd read
this study 20 years ago
but I only found it in 1974.
It was written up and Lynne
McTaggart's wonderful journal,
you know, what doctors'
going to tell you.
And I found this article
and I went, "Wow!"
And in this article
it said, curiously all
of these people did the same aid
mental and emotional changes.
I went, "Ooh," what were those
changes and they listed them
and I went on this list and
then, tick, tick, tick, tick,
tick, oh, I've done them all.
No wonder I had healed at last.
So I thought how
helpful is this?.
This is the breadcrumbs
that everybody needs
to be able to look at it.
And then I looked more carefully
at the list and I thought,
but this list-- this list
it's pretty heavy duty.
Almost everything on this list
requires quite a lot of work
like take a hundred percent
responsibility for your illness.
Not just saying, well, yes,
I think I had handed it.
Take a hundred percent of
responsibility for healing.
Now that's a lot of
responsibility for most people.
But the more responsibility you
take the more opportunity you
have for healing.
>> Lilou: It's so true in life.
Isn't it? I mean all of
this we're talking about is
of course applicable in life.
>> AE: Absolutely.
In relationships, in your
success, in your work,
in your fulfillment,
everything especially
of spiritual path,
it really is about.
And taking a hundred percent
of responsibility really means
stepping into your center
and being who you are.
And what was weird was I hadn't
realized how far I'd stepped off
my center.
With all the best intentions, I
had absorbed cultural beliefs,
beliefs from my family
spiritual ideas and beliefs,
learnings I had along the way
and they all sounded good to me.
You know, it's like you're
a fish in a fish bowl
in the water you're not aware
of because you're swimming
in this water everyday.
So it just feels like
you're in the world.
Well, I was swimming in
my water of all my beliefs
and it just looked normal to me.
>> Lilou: Including some dreams
that were apparently hurting you
so much from living
your truth now.
>> AE: This desire
to have the baby.
Remember my plan for
perfect happiness.
>> Lilou: Your obsession
>> AE: My obsession.
>> Lilou: Is becoming
like a tumor.
>> AE: Yeah, yeah, I'm sure that
was very, very much regarded
as one of the closest.
What was curious was towards
the end of my 10 years sort
of healing patch, I've came
across some more insidious
belief behind that one.
I suddenly remember that one
on my past life journeys,
this is a childhood journey,
I remembered what it felt
like to be a child
of about five or six,
my mother had been very ill for
many years, she a whole serious
of illnesses minor ones but
things like strep throat
and then she had her
thyroid completely collapsed
and she had to go on thyroxin.
But she was always ill and
possibly because of some
of these illnesses
she was a bit grumpy.
She was quite a bit grumpy
and she was a lot
of fun to be around.
And she was tired all the time
and she made everything she did
look like very, very hard work.
So what I got to see as a child
was being a mother is being
like the slave who is working
so hard and being so miserable
and so grumpy and angry.
Never any fun, no playtime,
no encouragement, no cuddles,
no hugs, you know, that's what
I thought being a mother was.
That went in as my template
for this is being a mother.
So imagine, I grew up
with that template,
did I really want
to be like that?
Did I really want to become
a mother there was a big part
of my own conscious mind
that had that wound in it
that said we're going to
protect you from that.
We're going to make sure you
never get pregnant really
and become a mother 'cause
you'll be like your mother was.
'Cause I love my mother and
of course I would be like here
because I love her,
she was my role model.
So part of my unconscious
mind was protecting me
from this terrible faith.
And curiously my
mother had always wanted
to be a bit of an adventurous.
She wanted to go out in
the world and do things
and go places and have
a career and stuff.
And she never was able to
because she had three children
and in her generation it
wasn't so easy to do that.
My father gave her no license
or encouragement to do that.
And she'd--
>> Lilou: She's not the kind
that was a hundred
percent responsible
for her life was she?
>> AE: No, in that generation
it was hard to be that way.
And I think that-- that led
to her sense of frustration.
And so she lived a little bit
vicariously through my sister
and me and encouraged
us to go out in ways
that it was slightly
unconscious.
But, you know, I got that, that
it was a really good idea to go
out to the world and do
everything and be everything
and have this career, although
I wasn't career driven.
Remember I wanted to
have babies in the house
in the country 'cause I thought
that was perfect happiness
but instead I ended
up with this career.
And during this 10 year
patch, as my work began
to change what also began
to change is I became more
and more fulfilled
and fascinated
with what I was doing.
And over time I began to
really enjoy everything
about my life much more.
And I didn't really notice
it until one day I woke
up one morning and I
was just feeling good.
I woke feeling good and then
the black cloud would descend
and I think, "Oh yeah.
And I got a brain
tumor to deal with".
and then I feel heavy.
And I think what can I do about
it today and then I tried to get
that around my day and
hope I don't get a headache
and blah, blah, blah, blah.
And this day I heard this
little voice in my head,
a very quiet little voice.
It was just like, "Oh
I'm so fed up with this.
I just want to get
rid of this tumor.
I don't want to do
this anymore."
Imagine, it was about nine and
a half years into my process
and I heard this little voice
and I knew from my training
and from my study of
a Course in Miracles
that that was not
a loving thought.
Now it's a totally
normal thought,
everybody thinks you should
have the desire to be well,
the desire to get rid
of your problem, right,
whether it's a health problem
or relationship problem,
work problem we want to
get rid of our problems.
We want to heal it really fast.
The faster the better right?
So to my conscious
mind that sounded
like a good idea 'cause it was
my conscious ego mind talking.
But I realized with
my higher mind
that was not a healing thought.
In fact it was quite
a murderous thought.
If that part of my
mind to had a gun,
it would have shot the tumor
to get rid of it, right?
It would have extracted
it with a knife.
It would have, you know,
anything to get rid of it.
I thought, "Huh, I have
an internal conflict,
'cause if one part of my mind is
feeling so murderous and wanting
to get rid of it and the
rest of me is going yes
but we're healers, we're
in the spiritual space,
we're wanting lo love it
better and be in a better place
and be calmed and,
you know, centered
and all this good stuff,
I thought I got a problem
because the truth is I
do want to get rid of it.
I was that honest that I could
say to myself, oh my god,
I do have that thought and I
do believe I want to get rid
of it otherwise I
wouldn't have that thought.
This is where my NLP really
helped me, so I thought OK,
now we know the issue, we
know how to resolve conflicts.
So I took a big long broad
view of my whole life,
did a whole time line in
my head of looking back
to where I have been
10 years before.
I remembered my dream of
wanting the house in the country
of the 2.5 children and, you
know, the horse, and the cat
and the dog and the wonderful
husband supporting everything
and being a wonderful man, and I
thought nothing wrong with that.
But look where I have come,
look what's happened instead.
Instead of getting that dream,
I've had the opportunity
to meet all these
amazing trainers,
teachers, healers, psychics.
I've gotten to go around the
world and all these trainings.
I've read all these books,
I've had all these information,
I got walls covered
with certificates.
My work has--
>> Lilou: An affirmations
>> AE: Affirmations, yes.
My-- my work had changed.
I was completely
different kind of healer.
And I thought, you know,
what's really interesting
about this picture is I really
like who I am now and I didn't
like myself back then as much.
Now I really feel OK with
myself, you know faults and all,
tumor and all, I
feel OK with myself
and I thought wow,
that's a big growth.
And I thought you know I
wouldn't done all of that.
I would never spend all that
money, I would have ever gone
around the world doing all
those workshops and training all
that stuff and reading
all these books,
I would never have done that.
I thought so I was stimulated
and encouraged and motivated
by my tumor to do that stuff.
So whatever part of me is making
the tumor must know better
because it's given me a better
life, a better fulfillment
and better growth
and development
and I wouldn't have
given myself.
I thought that's interesting
'cause you know what was
puzzling me at nine years
was why is it still there?
I'm doing all these
wonderful things.
Why is it still there?
So I asked that questions,
so why is it still there?
And the answer came back well
maybe there is something else
that you still need to learn.
Maybe there's another
workshop you need to do,
maybe there's some other
book you need to read,
maybe there's another place you
need to visit around the world
to have yet another
spiritual experience.
Is that so bad?
I went, no, that's
great, another adventure.
So at that point I started
to recognize the part
that it created my tumor
was my friend, my guide,
my teacher, my mentor.
And I thought I can trust it,
because it's always
had a better idea
about what would help
me grow than I had.
So in total genuine
honesty I could then say
for the first time, I don't need
to get rid of the tumor anymore.
In fact I give it
permission to stay to the end
of my days, I totally accept it.
And that was the first
time I'd really gotten
to a hundred percent
acceptance of my tumor.
>> LiLou: And there's
gratitude too for it.
>> AE: Gratitude
as well and trust.
I was in a place of total
open handed surrender.
And you know what happened next?
It was really interesting,
I forgot I had it.
I never woke up with
that black cloud again.
I forgot I had a tumor.
I just got on with my
life, nothing changed.
I just forgot I had a tumor.
And six months later I had
to for my usual blood test
and I went to see my lovely
doctor and I handed him the test
and I said, it looks
a little bit funny
because the blood
test is done to 450
which is well be in
the normal range.
I said, maybe it's
a mistake, you know,
and by then of course 10
years had gone by I was 50
and I said maybe it's
because I'm getting so old.
That's, you know--
>> Lilou: The range changed.
>> AE: My hormones have changed.
I said, "No", no he said, "Look
the other things on the test,
they're all totally normal.
This is a normal result.
Your tumor has stopped producing
high levels of prolactin."
He said, "This can only mean
one thing, your tumor has gone."
And, you know, I was
just like, "Wow, really?"
and he said yes, he
said and, you know,
I don't how you've done this.
This is a real credit to you.
And then he went on to
say, "I've been seeing you
for over 10 years and you
are not the same person,
you were 10 years ago."
He said, "This is been amazing
to watch" and he gave me a hug.
And I was quite sad, and I
nearly had a tear in my eyes,
as I left his office 'cause I
realized I wouldn't have the
excuse to come and see him
again because, you know,
we were on national health
by then and I couldn't go
and see him willy-nilly so.
>> Lilou: Awesome, so this is--
so the practical
aspect of the miracle.
The practical aspect to us
is to really accept this--
this acceptance for it.
This gratitude for it,
this trust and then all
of a sudden it actually
spoke you the--
the biggest message
of your life,
he was the biggest blessing.
>> AE: And it's curious because
our whole culture is about,
you know, having the will
to live fighting the--
the illness, the
battle to survive.
The battle against cancer,
the battle against aids,
the battle against whatever
disease you're suffering with.
And we have the same attitude
towards our career, you know?
We got to go out there
and fight the good fight
and the world is a
jungle and, you know,
it's all about competition.
And, you know, really
the opposite is true.
It's starting from that place
of-- this is interesting.
Well, how can we accept this?
Now that's not a
small thing to do.
It's very hard when you are
faced with the crisis and say,
"this is an interesting
experience" what can--
how can I accept this?
But if you did, if you
could start from that place
and then have the curiosity
to explore it and discover,
so why have I created this?
How have I invited this?
What thoughts in my thought
system have contributed
to this being the way it is?
And we also make
a mistake I think,
especially in the western world.
We think we need to analyze it.
And I think, you know, even in
my case I spend a lot of time
and maybe it wasn't time well
spent in analyzing, you know,
my childhood, my psychology, you
know, all that sort of stuff.
It doesn't have to
be that complicated.
Sometimes it's much simpler
than that is really listening
to the repetitive thoughts,
because they give you the clues.
And luckily there's a lot of
people now working in this way
from lots of different angles
and they are able to zero
in more quickly on and
discover some of these mistake
and aberrant thoughts that are
not helpful to our systems.
At the end of the day I
think that healing as much
as everything else is part
of our spiritual path.
It can be a huge asset
to helping one grow
if you look at that way.
It's tempting to see it is the
worst thing that ever happened
to you but in fact it can be the
best thing that ever happened.
A lot of people come up
tome and say, you know,
I agree it was the best thing
that ever happened, it forced me
to do this, it made
me stop doing that
and I left my relationship or
I made up and forgave somebody,
you know, it leads to growth.
Forgiveness is always
a huge part of it.
And what was also interesting to
me was because my journey took
so long, I learned a long
slow way of doing it.
But as a look back and retrace
my steps I could see the
stepping stones.
So that I can now help other
people find those stepping
stones, but because I did
all the work in between,
I have like the full
understanding of it.
And I realized with hindsight,
if I had healed in two weeks
or two months, I wouldn't have
had that, that level of depth
of understand and the
humility that comes with it
when you don't heal instantly.
And I used to think to myself
well maybe if I'd healed
in two months I would have
had stand on the soapbox
at Hyde Park Corner
and shout to the world,
"Eureka I have the
cure for cancer."
But now because it took me 10
years I can't possibly say that.
All I can do is gently encourage
people to have the faith
to continue working until
they find the answers.
>> Lilou: Beautiful, and though,
and though there's some
really instant healing
that really do bring to
humbleness and do bring
to amazing insights, all of this
sort of like I really do feel
like it's not about
so much the time,
it's what the time you needed.
And all is good short,
long whatever it takes.
But sometimes we have
it in a nutshell,
sometimes it takes longer
but in the end do we feel
good, you know, and free.
And you look free and very happy
and I love the light
in your eyes.
I wish I had this other
camera that would zoom
in into these beautiful
amazing eyes.
It's just a huge
ocean, so I could tell,
how much wisdom you have and
the beauty you have inside
shines out.
I think the whole
process about shining
out is what we really
have inside.
So thank you for that.
Thank you for being
a living miracle.
>> AE: Isn't, you know, I also
want to say what's the worse
that could happen
if you did this?
Imagine if you started
exploring a few of your thoughts
and you made better choices
about those thoughts,
what's the worst
that could happen?
You're going to feel
a little bit lighter.
You might not get a
total healing instantly
but you're going to feel
a little bit lighter
and then a little bit lighter
and a little bit more lighter,
little bit better, a little bit
better, a little bit better.
We make the mistake and
thinking that the actual healing
of the physical symptom
is the healing.
And real healing is the
inner state, you know,
there are some health issues
that can not be healed.
But the person inside
is beautiful,
perfect, whole and complete.
I mean look free.
You look at somebody like
Stephen Hawking as an example,
you know, his illness
has not ever healed
and can not be healed but
has he had a full life?
Has he-- how many
books is he written?
How many, you know,
children has he had?
You know he's had a
few marriages, does--
does he have a full
life absolutely?
He have completed,
fulfilled human being?
I would say so.
And I think that's the healing,
the inner state is the healing
and I think that's
very important.
It's also what happened to me
over the long period of time
as I learned how to
development resilience
and resilience is now
being taught here,
there and everywhere.
But it's not something you
can instantly learn like that.
It's something that has
to grow as a process
or things that help it.
But it isn't a spontaneous
thing.
So, you know, when Hay House
asked me to write a book
on resilience, I, you
know, I thought it first,
"Do I really know the
steps to resilience?"
And then when I looked
at my journey I--
well if I don't know
the steps to resilience,
who does because what it
took just to hang in there
for 10 years was
resilience, you know,
but I didn't really
feel I had a choice.
I mean what was the
choice I had?
I either kept on doing
the work or I suffered.
I mean easy choice to make.
But actually that's the same
choice everybody has, you know,
either you grow or you suffer.
You know, you're going to suffer
the consequence of holding
on to those mistake and
beliefs, or you're going
to get the benefits of
every little piece of growth
and every little
choice that you make.
I began to see it as what a
Course in Miracle says, it is--
it is always a choice
between choosing love or fear,
the choosing of love based
thoughts of fear based thought.
And everything that doesn't
lead you to a love based thought
where your-- in your own center
or your feeling at peace,
relaxed joyful, happy,
if it isn't love-based
then it's the other one.
And I think it the
western world,
we make this slight mistake
of thinking there's this
objective middle ground
of thinking you know.
But I'm being reasonable.
I'm being intellectual,
I'm being, I'm having,
I'm taking a perspective on
this, an objective perspective.
There is no middle ground.
And when you actually
explore some
of those rational
objective reasonable ideas
in your own head, you would
discover that at the root
of them they're based in fear.
They're based in some kind of
sense of, if I don't do this,
you know, I will come to
harm or the body will die
or it's based on
fear in some way.
Say, it's easy to
identify your own thoughts
of whether they're
loved of fear based.
One is going to leave
you feeling great.
And one is not.
And it's that ability to
be mindful of what's going
on in every little choice
of thought we think.
Before it comes out of
our mouth, before we tread
down the path and
spiral down into one
of those you know chain reaction
thoughts and run a whole movie
and end up in a bad state.
To be mindful of
the thoughts and go,
how was that that just
went through my head?
I just reacted to that
or that, you know,
what's-- what's going on here?
How could I think
differently about this?
>> Lilou: Beautiful, I've
so enjoyed this conversation
Arielle, thank you so much.
Thank you Juicy co-creators
for watching.
I know you got-- you
got lots out of this.
I am-- let's choose
love shall we?
I send you lots-- lots of big
kiss and warm flats from--
from beautiful London
thank you so much.
And I look forward to
reading Practical Miracles.
Thank you.
>> AE: [Background Music]
Thank you, thank you very much.
It's been a pleasure
talking to you.
>> Lilou: Big, big
kisses, bye-bye.